>> Speaker 1: Let's set one up real quick,
and
then we'll go back into talking
about the theory again.
So, yeah, I just opened up this task list,
it's got an express server.
It's got a V thing,
it's just got enough for
me to actually have something
useful to do in here.
So we can hit our good friend,
the Cmd palette.
I would just type in tasks.
Some tasks are automatic,
let's see if there are any in here.
You can see that in this case,
it did read my package JSON and
to a certain extent get
exactly what it should be.
The nice part is if you wanted to
put a key binding on one of these,
I mean, you can also assign cubins,
we'll see that in a second.
You can go ahead and see it,
look it made our test.json.
That's great, let's start with that.
Love it.
Npm format is in my package JSON,
but it is, again, "type": "npm",
"script": is 'format".
That's its label, and
now it is one of my tasks.
So I can go ahead and
save and now I can say,
if I go to run task, there it is, right?
So now the act of running lint or
if I wanted even run build,
I literally go in here.
It's a JSON file, watch this.
Put a comma in there.
Let's say, yeah, format.
What else I got in here?
I could just as I wanted to before,
we got lint in here.
We got lint fix, I love it.
So we got, let's do "lint: fix".
I ain't gonna whatever,
not figuring out what that was.
Lint, cool, cool, cool.
This one is probably,
I could use the eslint problem matcher,
but double quotes cuz we're in JSON.
So now what I can do is I can go in here,
and I can say,
task.
I've got that format in there,
and it just runs it.
If I ran it again,
it will use the same terminal tag.
We'll talk about how to deal with that
in a second, how to change the behavior.
I can run lint.
It'll go ahead and lint all the files,
so on and so forth.
So now I can do all those things.
I could start at the dev server.
I could build all the various things,
again, these are npm scripts.
You need to run a shell command,
it's a shell thing.
You want to just do
node in a certain file.
If we look here,
I've got server that's just a node file.
So we can do one here as well,
where we could say,
Process is what it is.
"process", we'll say,
then the command is node
And the args are, I think it's,
["src/ Server, .js"].
Cool.
What you angry about?
Missing property label, that's important.
So we'll say,
"label": "Start Server", right?
You can be whatever you want.
So now what I can do in here,
you got the start server.
It starts the server at local host 3000,
right?
And so there's a default test task and
a default build task as well.
And so you can literally just say,
build or test.
It will run those as well and that's cool.
You're neat, that saved me from
typing node source/server.js.
Great, okay, let's jump back new there.
And so we can go in here,
where are my tasks?
So here's a full out V1 where I've
got my lints, I've got my test,
I've got build for the frontend and
dev server for the frontend, right?
Npm, dev, I don't know why.
I think, I was just trying to prove
a point with the different approaches
to it when I was writing it.
But then we could have the backend
server as well that we kinda did before.
This one I'm using nodemon
instead of node, that was smart.
But what's interesting is you can also
make this one called, "Dev: Full Stack".
And this one depends on, "Dev
Server( API)" and "Dev Server (Frontend)".
So as long as it matches the labels.
And what this one will do is it
will trigger both of them, right?
So now I can start up the express server,
and
I can start up the Vite
server at the same time.
And you can do interesting stuff in here.
So if you wanted to check and
build all, you can do "dependsOn:.
So "Check & Build All" depends
on these other three tasks, but
with the order of "sequence", right?
So lint it, run the tests, and
then go ahead and build it, right?
And so now you can kinda do all those
things with one command as you go through.
And I just grabbed random other examples.
If you needed to compile the TypeScript
before you run it, hypothetically,
you build a VS code extension.
What's your take on linting anyway?
As long as it auto fixes them into it?
Yeah.
I mean, it depends.
The ones that catch the errors,
like unused variables,
sure, but those are easily removed, right?
How do I feel about lint it
when I don't have typescript?
I love it when I do have typescript,
I mean, some of the value own prettier.
There's a lot of overlap in the Venn
diagram of those three things, right?
It just seems a lot of people just
turn it off, you know what I mean?
I guess, I can't speak for
a lot of people, but
I mean, it just seems people turn it off.
It all depends.
However long ago,
when it was the Airbnb, eslint config,
which yelled at you for
all sorts of stylistic things, and
then it wouldn't build versus
prettier that just fixes them.
Also, as I have aged,
a younger me wanted everyone to
write code the way I like to code.
As I have gotten older, I've relaxed.
[LAUGH] Right, if I like arrow functions
and Alex likes function declarations,
yeah, it's kinda weird that it's a little
bit different than the multiple files.
But as I've gotten older,
I've had to let go a little bit.
But in a SvelteKit app, for instance, the
lint is also checking for anti-patterns.
Or the lint rule in React that says, if
you have a use effect that does not have
the dependency in it, I absolutely
wanna know about that one, right?
Do I wanna be yelled at?
Cuz we prefer function
declaration over arrow functions.
That one I'm done with, and
I am the person who was the draconian
monster with that, right?
I was the one everyone else hated,
and I have mellowed.
So it depends.
A Docker build and push one,
if you can do it from the command line.
You can go ahead and
you can also do it from the test as well.
This is an interesting one, which I
actually haven't used mostly because it
was one of the ones as I was researching.
I was like, that's cool, yeah.
What do you see as the benefit of doing
this versus just writing some aliases
in a Z shell RC or something?
I think having, one again, chaining them
and having the different rules about, hey,
can these go concurrent?
Can they go in order?
Could you have done it with an npm script,
which is npm run and,
and npm run and, and.
I think it's only if you are choosing
to get to the point where
you can just run it from
the Cmd palette real quick.
Again, when I look at a temporal workflow
where I've got to spin up workers and
the server and the workflow,
that's four things, right?
And sometimes one of them are running,
I just need an extra worker
having dropdown [LAUGH].
My God, honestly,
is what it comes down to.
Do you see it keeps you more in
the code then and looks- Yeah,
it's about the flow state.
I think,
that every time I have to context Shift,
there's a chance that I will stop and
look at Instagram.
[LAUGH] Right and if I can do it in
that flow state, we are better off.
Do I set up testing
every project I work on?
I don't, right?
But a lot of times in
the main app that I work on,
a lot of times it's still the Cmd line.
Cuz even the tests are there,
the Cmd line options still exist and
some of you have it.
But there are some situations that
are complicated, building an electron app
where you've got to spin up
the electron app with the main process.
But then maybe if you
are also using a framework,
that needs to compile the JavaScript, and
then maybe something isn't TypeScript and
needs to actually get compiled to become,
what I mean?
When you get to a certain amount of
things, being able to chain them along and
just like, run one thing and kind of like,
also the problem matchers that we're
talking about, like, where you can
actually, like, hook it in here and
actually see the problems versus, like,
parsing now five command lines right.
There are certain ergonomics.
But like, it is one of those things,
which is, like.
If it's simple enough,
would I ever do this, no.
>> Speaker 2: For a particular project,
would you Is there, like, a JSON file
where you might kick these off, you know,
when the build and when the builds
happening, just as a precaution,
like as a cleanup, kind of thing?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, I like,
it depends because, again,
s lot of times they are also running
shell command, so your CI/CD might do it.
I was thinking about this this morning,
which is way too late to think about this.
I got to imagine there's got to be a test
runner that will also respect the VS code
schema and
just let you run it on the command line.
>> Speaker 2: Well, you know how,
like in Angular JSON, for
example, you have, you know,
you know, all the NPM run.
Build stage, build prod, a different-
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Something like that, where
you could kick them off or something.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, and I think that this
one's obviously a little bit simpler than
even my app, but
a version of that exists here too, right?
>> Speaker 3: And
then what's your take on make.
I mean, because you can run make from
the command line with all kinds of
nice options.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
I'm okay with it.
>> Speaker 1: All the go projects
I work on use make seems great.
And you can run make from here too.
You know what I mean?
Like, there are things that you can do,
which I don't do, but
I feel that I am supposed
to tell you about them.
Can I do it from memory?
So I don't do this one because I again,
not because it's bad,
not because you shouldn't,
just because I am unable to.
To match braces.
My this one will then run
the task automatically.
When you open the project.
You either definitely want that or
you definitely don't.
I don't trust that.
My ports will be free personally.
Fun fact.
Just let's get this is like a total aside.
But on the topic VS code,
maybe it's either VS code,
one of my extensions is running on port
5000 so if you run something on port 5000
it's not working blame VS code or one of
my extensions, I'm not totally sure, but
I'm pretty sure VS code is like something
In VS Code is running on port 5000.
So if you just arbitrarily pick that
port and something doesn't work,
that's just a pro tip that
has ruined a day of my life.
Cool, yeah.
And I have never used this one, but the
idea that you can actually provide options
and stuff like that, again,
there's some ergonomic benefits that.
You could also build a very nice command
line tool if they don't provide the flag,
show the options.
There's stuff like ink and commander and
a whole bunch of other stuff.
It's an option.
I use it almost always for electron apps.
And then as I go down this,
a lot of times for temporal workflows.
And as I go down the.
The list of complexity.
I am less and less likely,
especially cuz if I use a boilerplate or
rest in peace create react app or
whatever,
you're getting a bunch of mpm scripts,
you know what they are right there.
There are options here, but
I think that the ability to chain them,
have the dependence,
if you did wanna run it again.
When you have them in there to
assign Keybinds or even just again,
this run task, these are the ones I
set up just to be able to like vary.
You can pin these to whichever
one you really want in this case.
And put it to a command so
on and so forth.
I could see a world where
the ergonomics are good, right?
Especially if there are a lot of options,
so on and so forth,
and you want to create a better
experience, it is there for you do?